scripts/README.md, before:

# Generating the Azure-PlantUML distro

If you want to have customized builds and/or experiment with Azure-PlantUML, you can generate the Azure-PlantUML distro yourself.

## Prerequisites

* You need [dotnet script](https://github.com/filipw/dotnet-script) installed for executing the scripts
* You also need to download the [Microsoft Azure, Cloud and Enterprise Symbol / Icon Set](http://aka.ms/CnESymbols) and copy all files from `Symbols\CnE_Cloud\SVG` to [source/official](../source/official)

## Configure

It is required to have [PlantUML](http://plantuml.com/) and [Inkscape](https://inkscape.org/) installed.
Please make sure, that the following variables at the beginning of `main.csx` are correct configured for your system:

```csharp
var plantUmlPath = @"C:\ProgramData\chocolatey\lib\plantuml\tools\plantuml.jar";
var inkScapePath = @"C:\Program Files\Inkscape\inkscape.exe";
```

### Configuration File: Config.yaml

This configuration file is used to map specific SVG file names to Azure services.
On top each Azure service is mapped to his primary category.

## Run

You can just execute

```text
dotnet script main.csx
```

### What happens

From a logical point of view, the following happens:

1. The `Config.yaml` is loaded
2. Cleanup: all files and directories from `dist` folder are deleted
3. AzureCommon.puml is copied to `dist`
4. For all configured services in `Config.yaml` a monochom and a colored SVGs is searched
    * The `source/manual` folder is used to supplement the original SVGs from Microsoft
    * If no colored SVG is found, this will be ignored
    * If no monochrom SVG is found, this will be generated form the colored one
    * If both is not found, an error is shown
5. From colored SVG a PNG is generated
6. From the monochrom SVG a PNG with white background is generated
    * This is needed for PlantUML sprite generation
7. A PlantUML sprite is generated
8. In a second round a PNG without background is generated from the monochrom SVG

        During all generations, it is ensured that the max size of length and width are not exeeding `targetMaxSize`.

9. In addition to single Azure services PUML files, also a combined PUML file per category is generated
10. A markdown table with all Azure services, their colored and monochrom symbols and the PUML files is generated
11. VSCode snippets for all Azure services for their PlantUML usage are generated

Commit message:

Change processing to handle latest icon set file naming standards Standardize launch settings to be location-neutral and improve script generation tool information Change manual image naming to use hyphen rather than space Update data/processing for optional canvas fit Updated script code to .NET Core 3.1

scripts/README.md, after:

# Generating the Azure-PlantUML distro

If you want to have customized builds and/or experiment with Azure-PlantUML, you can generate the Azure-PlantUML distro yourself.

## Prerequisites

* You need [dotnet script](https://github.com/filipw/dotnet-script) installed for executing the scripts (`dotnet tool install -g dotnet-script --version 0.53`)
* You also need to download the [Microsoft Azure architecture icons](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/icons/) and copy all folders from `Azure_Public_Service_Icons_V4\Azure_Public_Service_Icons\Icons` to [source/official](../source/official)
* For additional icons not in the official set, we suggest using the [Amazing Icon Downloader](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/amazing-icon-downloader/kllljifcjfleikiipbkdcgllbllahaob/)

## Configure

It is required to have [PlantUML](https://https://plantuml.com/) (`choco install plantuml`) , [Inkscape](https://inkscape.org/) and `rsvg_convert` (`choco install rsvg-convert`)installed.

Please make sure, that the following variables at the beginning of `main.csx` are correct configured for your system, if you used chocolately for `PlantUml` and `rsvg_convert` and the inkscape installer, they should be correct:

```csharp
var plantUmlPath = @"C:\ProgramData\chocolatey\lib\plantuml\tools\plantuml.jar";
var inkScapePath = @"C:\Program Files\Inkscape\inkscape.exe";
static string rsvgConvertPath = @"C:\ProgramData\chocolatey\lib\rsvg-convert\tools\rsvg-convert.exe";
```

### Configuration File: Config.yaml

This configuration file is used to map specific SVG file names to Azure services.
On top each Azure service is mapped to his primary category.

## Run

You can just execute

```text
dotnet script main.csx
```

### What happens

From a logical point of view, the following happens:

1. The `official` folder is processed recursively to rename all the SVGs found
1. The `Config.yaml` is loaded
1. Cleanup: all files and directories from `dist` folder are deleted
1. AzureCommon.puml is copied to `dist`
1. For all configured services in `Config.yaml` a monochrome and a colored SVGs is searched
    * The `source/manual` folder is used to supplement the original SVGs from Microsoft
    * If no colored SVG is found, this will be ignored
    * If no monochrome SVG is found, this will be generated form the colored one
    * If both is not found, an error is shown
1. From colored SVG a PNG is generated
1. From the monochrome SVG a PNG with white background is generated
    * This is needed for PlantUML sprite generation
1. A PlantUML sprite is generated
1. In a second round a PNG without background is generated from the monochrome SVG

        During all generations, it is ensured that the max size of length and width are not exeeding `targetMaxSize`.

1. In addition to single Azure services PUML files, also a combined PUML file per category is generated
1. A markdown table with all Azure services, their colored and monochrome symbols and the PUML files is generated
1. VSCode snippets for all Azure services for their PlantUML usage are generated
